Remember that prevention plus wellness programs are designed to help
youth and young adults look and feel more active,
fit and healthy
using a three-step brief intervention process.
Here we will learn what to do before you implement your program.
To present your program,
you will follow along with the script
while using the PowerPoint slides.
Therefore,
it is key that you have the program manual and slides with you before the lesson.
Practice the scripts allowed prior to presenting to others.
You will also need copies of the screening survey,
goal plan contract,
seven-day calendar log,
instructor survey,
and the pre and post-test surveys,
unless using the online surveys.
Make sure to get the PowerPoint slides and other
digital download materials from your organization before you begin.
Before you present your PPW program,
sign up online at preventionplusweness.com
to receive notices of invaluable prevention plus wellness resources,
research,
and webinars.
This will help to ensure you experience the greatest program reach,
effectiveness,
and sustainability.
Print copies of all the program and evaluation materials
from the digital download file before beginning the lesson.
Again,
your prevention organization will receive this digital
download folder when they purchase the program.
If you plan to present your program virtually,
you can use the additional screening survey and goal plan
slides that show links for participants to access these materials.
Immediately before beginning the lesson,
administer either the online or paper pre-test survey
to participants.
We recommend the online survey as you will avoid having to hand enter the data.
One month after the lesson,
implement the post-test survey to assess 30-day
substance use and healthy behavior changes.
If you can't provide the 1 month follow-up,
implement the post-test immediately after the lesson
to assess risk and protective factor changes.